README.adoc, before:

= Karaf CXF REST QuickStart

This quickstart demonstrates how to create a RESTful (JAX-RS) web service using CXF and expose it through the OSGi HTTP Service.

The REST service provides a customer service that supports the following operations

- PUT /customerservice/customers/ - to create or update a customer
- GET /customerservice/customers/{id} - to view a customer with the given id
- DELETE /customerservice/customers/{id} - to delete a customer with the given id
- GET /customerservice/orders/{orderId} - to view an order with the given id
- GET /customerservice/orders/{orderId}/products/{productId} - to view a specific product on an order with the given id

When the application is deployed, you can access the REST service using a web browser.


IMPORTANT: This quickstart can run in 1 mode: on Kubernetes / OpenShift Cluster

== Running the Quickstart on a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster

IMPORTANT: You need to run this example on Container Development Kit 3.3 or OpenShift 3.7.
Both of these products have suitable Fuse images pre-installed.
If you run it in an environment where those images are not preinstalled follow the steps described in <<single-node-without-preinstalled-images>>.

A single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster provides you with access to a cloud environment that is similar to a production environment.

If you have a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster, such as Minishift or the Red Hat Container Development Kit, link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/minishift-installation.html[installed and running], you can deploy your quickstart there.

. Download the project and extract the archive on your local filesystem.

. Log in to your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc login -u developer -p developer
----

. Create a new OpenShift project for the quickstart:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project MY_PROJECT_NAME
----

. Change the directory to the folder that contains the extracted quickstart application (for example, `my_openshift/karaf-cxf-rest`) :
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd my_openshift/karaf-cxf-rest
----

. Build and deploy the project to the OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn clean -DskipTests oc:deploy -Popenshift
----

[#single-node-without-preinstalled-images]
=== Running the Quickstart on a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster without preinstalled images

A single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster provides you with access to a cloud environment that is similar to a production environment.

If you have a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster, such as Minishift or the Red Hat Container Development Kit, link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/minishift-installation.html[installed and running], you can deploy your quickstart there.


. Download the project and extract the archive on your local filesystem.

. Log in to your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc login -u developer -p developer
----

. Create a new OpenShift project for the quickstart:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project MY_PROJECT_NAME
----

. Import base images in your newly created project (MY_PROJECT_NAME) according to https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_fuse/7.7/html/fuse_on_openshift_guide/get-started-non-admin[documentation].

. Change the directory to the folder that contains the extracted quickstart application (for example, `my_openshift/karaf-cxf-rest`) :
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd my_openshift/karaf-cxf-rest
----

. Build and deploy the project to the OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn clean -DskipTests oc:deploy -Popenshift -Djkube.generator.fromMode=istag -Djkube.generator.from=MY_PROJECT_NAME/fuse7-karaf-openshift:1.10
----

== Accessing the REST service

When the example is running, a REST service is available.  This allows you to very easily test a few of the RESTful services we defined:

If you run the example on a single-node OpenShift cluster, then the REST service is exposed at 'http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/`.

Notice: As it depends on your OpenShift setup, the hostname (route) might vary. Verify with `oc get routes` which hostname is valid for you. Add the `-Djkube.deploy.createExternalUrls=true` option to your Maven commands if you want it to deploy a Route configuration for the service.

Use this URL to display the root of the REST service, which also allows to access the WADL of the service:

    http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm

Use this URL to display the XML representation for customer 123:

    http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers/123

You can also access the XML representation for order 223 ...

    http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/orders/223

**Note:** if you use Safari, you will only see the text elements but not the XML tags - you can view the entire document with 'View Source'

== To run a command-line utility:

You can use a command-line utility, such as cURL or wget, to perform the HTTP requests.  We have provided a few files with sample XML representations in `src/test/resources`, so we will use those for testing our services.

1. Open a command prompt and change directory to `karaf-cxf-rest`.
2. Run the following curl commands (curl commands may not be available on all platforms):

    * Create a customer

            curl -X POST -T src/test/resources/add_customer.xml -H "Content-Type: text/xml" http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers

    * Retrieve the customer instance with id 123

            curl http://quickstart-cxf-rest.f8/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers/123

    * Update the customer instance with id 123

            curl -X PUT -T src/test/resources/update_customer.xml -H "Content-Type: text/xml" http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers

    * Delete the customer instance with id 123

             curl -X DELETE http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers/123

== Integration Testing

The example includes a Kubernetes Integration Test.
Once the container image has been built and deployed in Kubernetes, the integration test can be run with:

[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
mvn test -Dtest=*KT
----

The test is disabled by default and has to be enabled using `-Dtest`.

== More details

You can find more details about running this http://fabric8.io/guide/quickstarts/running.html[quickstart] on the website. This also includes instructions how to change the Docker image user and registry.

Commit message:

ENTESB-17405 - note about java 11 in quickstarts

README.adoc, after:

= Karaf CXF REST QuickStart

This quickstart demonstrates how to create a RESTful (JAX-RS) web service using CXF and expose it through the OSGi HTTP Service.

The REST service provides a customer service that supports the following operations

- PUT /customerservice/customers/ - to create or update a customer
- GET /customerservice/customers/{id} - to view a customer with the given id
- DELETE /customerservice/customers/{id} - to delete a customer with the given id
- GET /customerservice/orders/{orderId} - to view an order with the given id
- GET /customerservice/orders/{orderId}/products/{productId} - to view a specific product on an order with the given id

When the application is deployed, you can access the REST service using a web browser.


IMPORTANT: This quickstart can run in 1 mode: on Kubernetes / OpenShift Cluster. Quickstart requires Java 8 or Java 11 (`fuse-karaf-openshift-jdk11-rhel8` image is used to build in Java 11)

== Running the Quickstart on a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster

IMPORTANT: You need to run this example on Container Development Kit 3.3 or OpenShift 3.7.
Both of these products have suitable Fuse images pre-installed.
If you run it in an environment where those images are not preinstalled follow the steps described in <<single-node-without-preinstalled-images>>.

A single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster provides you with access to a cloud environment that is similar to a production environment.

If you have a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster, such as Minishift or the Red Hat Container Development Kit, link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/minishift-installation.html[installed and running], you can deploy your quickstart there.

. Download the project and extract the archive on your local filesystem.

. Log in to your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc login -u developer -p developer
----

. Create a new OpenShift project for the quickstart:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project MY_PROJECT_NAME
----

. Change the directory to the folder that contains the extracted quickstart application (for example, `my_openshift/karaf-cxf-rest`) :
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd my_openshift/karaf-cxf-rest
----

. Build and deploy the project to the OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn clean -DskipTests oc:deploy -Popenshift
----

[#single-node-without-preinstalled-images]
=== Running the Quickstart on a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster without preinstalled images

A single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster provides you with access to a cloud environment that is similar to a production environment.

If you have a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster, such as Minishift or the Red Hat Container Development Kit, link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/minishift-installation.html[installed and running], you can deploy your quickstart there.


. Download the project and extract the archive on your local filesystem.

. Log in to your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc login -u developer -p developer
----

. Create a new OpenShift project for the quickstart:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project MY_PROJECT_NAME
----

. Import base images in your newly created project (MY_PROJECT_NAME) according to https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_fuse/7.7/html/fuse_on_openshift_guide/get-started-non-admin[documentation].

. Change the directory to the folder that contains the extracted quickstart application (for example, `my_openshift/karaf-cxf-rest`) :
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd my_openshift/karaf-cxf-rest
----

. Build and deploy the project to the OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn clean -DskipTests oc:deploy -Popenshift -Djkube.generator.fromMode=istag -Djkube.generator.from=MY_PROJECT_NAME/fuse7-karaf-openshift:1.10
----

== Accessing the REST service

When the example is running, a REST service is available.  This allows you to very easily test a few of the RESTful services we defined:

If you run the example on a single-node OpenShift cluster, then the REST service is exposed at 'http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/`.

Notice: As it depends on your OpenShift setup, the hostname (route) might vary. Verify with `oc get routes` which hostname is valid for you. Add the `-Djkube.deploy.createExternalUrls=true` option to your Maven commands if you want it to deploy a Route configuration for the service.

Use this URL to display the root of the REST service, which also allows to access the WADL of the service:

    http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm

Use this URL to display the XML representation for customer 123:

    http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers/123

You can also access the XML representation for order 223 ...

    http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/orders/223

**Note:** if you use Safari, you will only see the text elements but not the XML tags - you can view the entire document with 'View Source'

== To run a command-line utility:

You can use a command-line utility, such as cURL or wget, to perform the HTTP requests.  We have provided a few files with sample XML representations in `src/test/resources`, so we will use those for testing our services.

1. Open a command prompt and change directory to `karaf-cxf-rest`.
2. Run the following curl commands (curl commands may not be available on all platforms):

    * Create a customer

            curl -X POST -T src/test/resources/add_customer.xml -H "Content-Type: text/xml" http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers

    * Retrieve the customer instance with id 123

            curl http://quickstart-cxf-rest.f8/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers/123

    * Update the customer instance with id 123

            curl -X PUT -T src/test/resources/update_customer.xml -H "Content-Type: text/xml" http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers

    * Delete the customer instance with id 123

             curl -X DELETE http://karaf-cxf-rest-MY_PROJECT_NAME.OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR.nip.io/cxf/crm/customerservice/customers/123

== Integration Testing

The example includes a Kubernetes Integration Test.
Once the container image has been built and deployed in Kubernetes, the integration test can be run with:

[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
mvn test -Dtest=*KT
----

The test is disabled by default and has to be enabled using `-Dtest`.

== More details

You can find more details about running this http://fabric8.io/guide/quickstarts/running.html[quickstart] on the website. This also includes instructions how to change the Docker image user and registry.
